Lab 9  Social VR

READ THROUGH ALL THE STEPS BEFORE STARTING!!!

Step 1: Make sure your Quest is successfully connected to WiFi.  If you are not connected to WiFi, ask Professor Marks for help.

Step 2: Download VRmultiplayer.apk from Canvas Lab9 assignment link, or download using this link: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1VjcrHuz-F9xYKfa8RxXwFyU5NvQKa7F6/

Step 3: Use the Meta Quest Developer Hub File Manager to install VRmultiplayer.apk on your USB-connected Quest (File Manager, On Device, Apps).  

NOTE!!!  The remainder of the Lab requires a partner; since you will be in VR, have your partner read the next Step to you and record your answers to questions in a text  file.  You'll be submitting the answers for your partner's social VR experience, and they will be submitting the answer for yours. 

Step 4: Once the .apk file is copied onto the Quest, run it from inside the Quest by clicking on "App Library" (the right-most icon in the menu bar) and select "Unknown sources“ on the left.

Step 5: Once inside the VR application, watch the brief video, then try moving around.  Once comfortable, teleport to the marked area and enter your name, then enter the 6-digit code displayed in class to join the shared network experience.  Don't click on "New Room"!  If you have any trouble joining the shared network experience, please let Professor Marks know ASAP!

Step 6: Once in the shared experience, enter the giant hall and explore for a couple minutes.  You can explore more later.

Step 7: Find Professor Marks; he is standing next to the table of objects.  What color is his virtual shirt?  What is on his head?  What objects are in front of him?  Ask him to pose for you, and describe his pose.  If you don't have voice chat enabled, just wave your arms to get his attention and he will pose.

Step 9: Find the message board teleportation area, and type your name as a message.

Step 10: Try at least one of the other activities, and describe the activity for your partner to record in the text file.  

Step 11:  Exit the experience, and your partner will use the headset and start on Step 4.

SUBMIT the results of your partner's social VR experience (the text file with their answers).  Be sure to include your partner's name in the text file.

 



 