Lab 4

Step 1:  Start by opening "run_webgl_gouraud.html" in a browser.  
Press the "t" key to toggle on animation.  
It is the 8-sided die from the homework! (minus the numbers)
Note that you can also drag the mouse to rotate the camera, or use keyboard "wasd" to move about the XZ plane.
Pressing "h" will reset the camera back to the home starting position.
Nothing to submit for this step.

Step 2: Open "web_app_gouraud.js" and take a look at the code before changing anything.
Note that there are 6 vertices and 8 faces, and the faces are specified using indices.
The vertices are just like the homework, and the indices are nearly the same, except 
the indices range from 0 to 5 instead of 1 to 6, so the triplets are all 1 less).
Also note that the color attribute is gone from each vertex, and instead we have a normal per vertex.
The normal are actually identical to the vertices, which is definitely not very normal...er, standard.
But in this case, the 8-sided die is centered on the origin, with all vertices exactly 1 unit away.

Currently the vertex shader is computing ambient and diffuse lighting.  Your job is to implement 
specular component for lighting.  Search for "TODO" in the code.
SUBMIT a screenshot from the home location and SUBMIT web_app_gouraud.js for this part.

Step 3: Now open "run_webgl_phong.html" You'll notice the die is quite dark.  
This is because only ambient is implemented in "web_app_phong.js"
Your job is to implement diffuse and specular world-space Phong lighting for every fragment.
Search for "TODO" in the code.
Again, SUBMIT a screenshot from the home location and also SUBMIT web_app_phong.js

Step 4: Finally, open "run_webgl_texture.html" to see the die with a texture map.
If you look at "web_app_texture.js", you'll see the little bit of extra code that is required to do texture-mapping.
The key part is the texture coordinates are interpolated by webgl just like our other parameters.
I made up these texture coordinates on a whim; I'm sure you could pick better ones if you try.
You can also add diffuse and specular lighting to the fragments shader if you like!
But all that is required to SUBMIT is a screenshot NOT from the home location; instead move the camera to get a good
view of the textured die so that it fills more of the screen and you can see some part of the corgi's tiny legs.




